all right how much time do you spend on
your phone per day as smartphones gain
more functions we become more and more
involved with them sometimes there's
even your whole life in one small device
and that's reason enough to care about
it a lot
thieves and scammers invent new schemes
almost every day and protecting your
personal data can be hard so how can you
make those villains stay out of your
life number one a call from a private
number
unidentified numbers are sometimes used
by different services such as taxi
companies or private clinics and
scammers can use this to their advantage
a person in distress may approach you
and ask if they can make a call from
your phone it's usually a girl so that
you're more willing to give your dear
device to a stranger this scammer makes
a call and your phone number is
identified on the other end of the line
then comes the second part of the scheme
you get a call from a private number and
the person identifies themselves as a
representative of some public service
the police for example they might say
that one of your family members is in
big trouble but you can save them by
paying a fine for them they will play on
your love for your family and if you're
not careful you might give money to
someone who isn't exactly who they say
they are to avoid such situations
there's one general recommendation don't
answer calls from unidentified numbers
this might seem risky because you never
know whether a call is important but
better safe than sorry if you do happen
to answer such a call make sure you
check all the information that caller
provides before you do anything else if
it's a police officer ask for their full
name and badge number if it's another
service request a phone number you can
call back on and check if they really
exist
finally if it's someone from your family
who is possibly in trouble
contact them yourself there's no better
way to find out if you're being scammed
then asking simple yet efficient
number two texting this comes in
different forms your bank may send you a
text about suspicious activity on your
account the text will state that a
certain sum has been blocked on your
bank card prompting you to call a number
or visit a web site to unblock it or
decline the transaction the number seems
okay so you do exactly what the text
says and give your banking information
to scammers remember that you should
never visit any websites or call any
numbers you see in random text before
checking them with your bank phone
numbers are easily forged today so it
can look like a trusted number but
instead be just a dummy call the bank
and ask them if the info is correct more
often than not it's a criminal ploy to
fish your money from your wallet and
since I mentioned forging phone numbers
here's another tech scam a number that
seems to belong to one of your friends
sends you a text asking you to message
or call back once you do that you're
charged a hefty sum on your mobile
account if you have any doubts that it's
indeed a friend of yours who's texting
you don't reply directly to the message
instead open your contacts and find the
number yourself by the way when you exit
the scam text and then get back to it
the number has usually already changed
so you'll see it's not someone you know
if it doesn't change though it's still
best to stay on the safe side number
three one ring scam what's your first
impulse when you see a missed call I'll
bet it's to call back and find out what
it was about this is especially true if
your phone is also your working tool and
you get many calls from numbers you
don't know this particular phone number
calls you with a single aim though to
fish your money from you it calls you
and gives you exactly one ring before
hanging up the scammers do it in the
hope you don't notice if you really
don't you call back and a large sum of
money is immediately charged to your
account
that's sneaky now to protect your
precious finds it's best not to call
back numbers you don't recognize but if
you do fall for this scam track your
bills closely and contact your service
provider if you notice anything unusual
I'd also recommend having a second phone
just for business calls with the minimum
amount of money behind it that way
you'll at least keep your personal phone
safe number for potential buyers call
scam this usually happens when you try
to sell your car or something equally
expensive online you leave your phone
number and expect potential buyers to
call you someone does but you smell
something fishy about them for some
reason they try to lure all your banking
info from you including your bank card
CVC number they say it's to send you the
money in advance but you're not stupid
are you you hang up of course after some
time when you've forgotten all about
this suspicious weirdo you get another
call this time from your bank the bank
employee says you've recently received a
large sum to your account and they need
to check the clients information now I
don't know about you but I'd be
bewildered at this moment if your
reaction is the same you might just
spill all the beans to the phony
employee including that same CVC number
and now guess who really called you did
not find yourself in an unpleasant
situation first of all remember that you
should never ever tell anyone your PIN
or CVC number even your bank can't
request this information it's completely
private if a bank employee asks you to
say it then it's not a bank employee
simply hang up secondly don't leave your
personal phone number on public websites
best purchase a separate SIM card for
that if you must number five a familiar
number an unfamiliar person
technological progress is as fast as
ever and phone criminals get access to
new tech to one of these newer methods
is phone number and voice substitution
remember those texting schemes when you
received a message
your relative saying that they're in
trouble and need money well this one is
basically the same only one step higher
you get a phone call from a person you
know say your mom and answer it with no
suspicions then you hear your mom's
distressed voice and she tells you she's
in deep trouble or maybe even in danger
if you believe it I wouldn't blame you
because it's too hard to stay cool when
such stuff happens so your mom leaves
you instructions on what to do and where
to send money this is crazy I know but
it's what scammers do nowadays your only
way out of this scheme is to call back
after the criminals hang-up if someone's
managed to forge a number to call you
fortunately it doesn't work the other
way around so when you call your mom you
will hear your actual mom not someone
with her voice number 6
tech support this one is probably the
most annoying of all a tech support
employee from your service provider
calls you out of the blue and says you
have some weird activity on your balance
to check if everything is OK they need
you to tell them the code they send you
in a text in fact this text contains a
code that allows you to sign into your
personal account of the mobile service
provider usually such texts also warn
you that you strictly shouldn't reveal
it to anyone but the scammers are good
at psychology and they're confident
enough to make you relax having received
access to your personal account they can
do whatever they want with your money
and other things I can't stress enough
that you should never provide any
confidential information to anyone at
all even your bank or service provider
they don't need your personal data to
manipulate your account on their side if
someone asks for it they're most
probably trying to get their hands on
your money also if you receive such a
phone call
try saying you're busy and ask if you
can call back later there's usually
nowhere to call back to so the scammers
will likely hang up immediately
well bright ciders what other phone
scams do you know let us all know about
them in the comments so we can learn to
protect ourselves if you discovered
something new give this video a thumbs
up share it with your friends and family
to spread the word and click that big
red subscribe button to always stay on
the bright side of life
[Music]